everybody welcome to impact theory you
were here my friends because you believe
that human potential is nearly limitless
but you know that having potential is
not the same as actually doing something
with it so our goal with this show and
company is to introduce you to the
people and ideas that will help you
actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is a college dropout
that everyone thought was going to fail
but against the odds he turned himself
into a self-made multi-millionaire by
the time he was 24 starting from humble
beginnings he learned fast and built an
empire through an unending amount of
grit and hustle what he lacked in formal
training he made up for in street savvy
and an understanding of people he
created a huge online community around
stock trading made some heroic stock
investments himself was up 20 million
dollars just from investing and
simultaneously also built his own
marketing agency into a monster that was
doing 10 million dollars in annual
revenue he had the penthouse in the sky
the Bentley's the Ferrari he was
traveling the world in style and then
out of nowhere it all came crashing down
when the Great Recession hit he lost it
all everything but he did not sit in the
corner and cry about it he checked his
ego put his head down and shifted back
into raw hustle mode but this time it
wasn't about ego or the money it was
about impact and from the ashes he and
two co-founders in the grips of the
recession began building a new media
company for Millennials called elite
daily they were committed to giving
voice to a generation that up to that
point really didn't have one and despite
a mountain of hate being thrown their
way by traditional media companies they
built an amazing company and culture
outworked everyone else and established
themselves as the dominant player in
their demographic they'll be a massive
brand that reached over 80 million
readers per month in 2015 they were
acquired for nearly 50 million dollars
by the Daily Mail but what makes today's
guest so fascinating it
isn't how successful he has been it said
instead of retiring to Miami Beach he
decided the only thing that mattered to
him was building something to help those
less fortunate so he moved into one of
the worst neighborhoods in Newark New
Jersey began buying the surrounding area
and created founders a social impact
accelerator for entrepreneurs by
entrepreneurs so please help me in
welcoming one of the most passionate and
fascinating human beings I have ever met
the CEO of founders an angel investor
and philanthropist who is helping
underprivileged entrepreneurs become
successful entrepreneurs the man known
as the millennial mentor Gerard Adams
[Applause]
does the best interesting guy I had
definitely ever had my friend it doesn't
even come close to capturing what it
felt like to meet you in Newark to go
out to see the space meet the people
that you're actually helping who by the
way have come from all over the world to
be part of what you're doing in a really
rundown part of the city but when you
see what you guys are doing it
it was unbelievable and I'm so glad I
got to see it for myself so my question
is you rich homie why do you work so
hard that's what what is that about uh
for me I mean I do what I love every
single day you know I really do I really
enjoy seeing the people around me thrive
and succeed and I love passing down the
knowledge that you know I've learned
over the past 14 years it was it was
tough you know to to amount to some
success in my life and for me I started
just asking myself tough questions of
like why you know why did this all
happen you know how did I overcome all
this and like what can I do every day to
to truly inspire and educate and impact
the people around me and do it in a
place where my family's roots are from
and you know a community that you know
really is important to me and if I can
do it you know every single day there
little by little make that impact there
hopefully we can spread that across the
world
all right so walk us through a little
bit of the story so when you're you're
riding high at 24 you've got to feel
pretty badass I know I certainly would
have what did your mom say when you lost
everything it really put your head on
right oh man that was uh that was crazy
it's it's interesting you know when that
all happened I was so scared to like be
vulnerable and like that I like lost you
know like I I really understood at that
point like that about like about ego and
you know I when that all happened I
couldn't tell anybody I was like scared
you know what they would think yeah
because I was this person at like
overcame adversity made it like all my
friends are just starting to graduate
from college they couldn't get a job
they were coming to me to to get a job
you know and I had lost it all and I was
like oh my god like what do I do but I
can't I don't tell him I lost it all and
you know and I didn't know what to do in
and out at the end of the day um my
mother just told me that and she was 15
years old she had a studio apartment
with her brothers and sisters my aunt
and uncle's and my grandparents she was
walking home from school with her friend
and her friend was like Jenny I think
the building that you live in is on fire
my mother ran home and luckily my family
got out but they lost everything but the
shirts on their back and my mother had
never told me about this growing up whoa
so like I never knew any of this
it was into like I actually was down and
out that my mother sat me down and I was
like I don't know what to do mom how am
I gonna like it out of it and she was
the kid of immigrant parents right yeah
both my actually born in Colombia she
was born in Colombia okay yeah anyway
how old was she when she came I think
about six years old okay Wow yeah and
she saw me she was like she had the bag
her school teacher to allow to take
night classes so that she can get a job
they didn't want to allow her but she
like basically begged and they'd let her
take night classes and she couldn't get
a job in Jersey so she went to Canal
Street it was like wintertime my mom is
telling me this and starts crying and
she's just like
and I went through that just so I can
get make a little bit of money to help
your grandparents put food on the table
and I was the oldest sibling of all your
aunts and uncles and we were able to
overcome that and now I put this roof
over your head you best believe that you
better get out there and you can do it
again
because we can lose everything Jerrod
but they can't take this away they can't
take this away from you and that's why I
feel so blessed to have such great
parents because they these are the
things that like it ain't still did me
like those are the values of the mindset
both my parents don't my entire life
have really I owe it all to them not for
life what they you know anything
material anything like that I'm so
grateful for the things they've done for
me but more than anything just like
they've always empowered me and they
always just like really supported me and
just saying what they've done to to get
to where they are and and my
grandparents too like immigrating I
always you know I owe it to them mmm
you used to getting at least one
fistfight with your dad if I'm not
mistaken growing up she sounds like you
were a bit of a handful I was you know
it wasn't the there wasn't like the
book-smart do good at school kid I was
the troublemaker
you know I I'm like a young age I just
you know it was the more social and I
liked I was a skater I went through so
many phases I was like a skater that I
got at a hip-hop phase I was like all
like wearing like FUBU and southpaw
like then I went to the BMX and I went
through so many different phases as a
kid and I like was a hot young hustler
and you know I almost gone to some big
trouble I haven't really publicly talked
about this too much it was kind of like
been scared but I went from like street
racing some car parts and then somehow I
ended up getting caught into some weed
and like all my friends were smoking and
stuff like that I was like young 17 and
I'd end up getting caught in two freakin
hustling like 20 bags of like weed when
I was like young and I'll never forget
my family like my father one day
me in my room at 17 years old and seeing
me put the weed in the bag and my dad is
old-school
so like growing up my dad didn't take no
[__] maybe he really like didn't take no
[__] this is the first time I like he
just looked at me was like I'm really
disappointed and this is your decision
but don't come don't come home when you
get in trouble a while and something
crazy happened I thought I was like
invincible or something literally like
the next day I'm driving my car I'm
going to like drop over 22 like my
friend's house and all of a sudden all
these cops around me we're rude and I'm
like oh my god
and I had tinted windows I'm like hiding
it like at any Clips you should be able
to like hide by the transmission and all
of a sudden all these cops around me and
I'm like my whole life flash before my
eyes I'm like I I just ruin my life my
family this everyone that that like in
school thought it was gonna be like this
kid I wasn't going to make it all the
time like I just prove them right what
does I can't believe I did this and then
lo and behold these cops all pound on my
window go to the window and I'm like
Henderson I lower the window I look at
the officer what are you doing and like
I'm like I'm picking up my friends from
high school and had just had called him
right before the cops but I hang on the
window he comes out hey it's just you
know drawer picking me up for school and
long behold somebody was committing
grand theft auto right in front of me
that's why the cops came and they
arrested this person for grand theft
auto right in front of me and I was at
that moment I was like oh my god like I
thought I had it first of all guardian
angel my grandma passed away from
cancers like always been my guardian
angel and I would just put that I was
like whoa like ah this is not what I'm
supposed to this is my you know I need
to really think about think twice about
my life on my path and that's when I was
like alright I need to channel
everything about my ambition and like
who I am as a person and my you know how
I was raised like I need to channel that
into business but from that moment
forward I like completely switch gears I
wanted to go into you know really focus
on getting into a good college at that
time yeah I haven't really talked about
that but you know it's like you know
when you're succumb to your environment
and I
was a rounded by an environment where
all my friends were smoking you know
doing drugs gangs fights street racing
and I was just likes to come to that and
it became the norm for me how'd you get
out of it so fast though like I mean you
started really taking yourself seriously
certainly right after you drop out of
college which you can't be more than 18
19 yeah I was 18 years old so what was
it that incident that caused you to
really buckle down and get serious or
yeah definitely
as from like a mindset definitely then I
went to go to college was like okay my
parents are saying in order for me to
become successfully I got to go to
college I had a good education you know
I wasn't able to get into Princeton like
my dad wanted so I got into Colville
College and my goal was to eventually
transfer and with the right person
hopefully right and my first semester it
was like you know everyone he's partying
more than freakin high school here and
they're telling me what classes to take
in order to earn credits just to get to
the classes I want to take to learn
about business while getting into debt
and I was like this is the biggest
business in the world I'm like the
education there you know this is like in
my opinion like this is like a scam you
know we have the Internet
like I'm you know so I was like I'm
gonna I want to double down on the
Internet and luckily I found a mentor
pretty early on at that time at 18 years
old and having that conversation but my
family was really tough that you were
dropping out yeah because again it's
like up you know it's you're gonna be
here we go here we go you know he's done
did they think you were just being lazy
no they saw my they saw me like you know
up till 4:00 or 5:00 in the morning
everything on that computer they saw me
and you working on a business plan or
yeah working on a business plan working
on a website working going on different
forums right we're like are you already
thinking stock spot at this point I was
thinking stocks yeah and I was starting
to ideate the stock spot right because I
was going on all these all the forums to
learn about stocks to learn about like
you know investing in trading and none
of them had a rating system none of them
you didn't know who was who was like the
a well almost like AOL look back in the
day one ed chatrooms and just like
screen names you know you don't know who
selectman there's got to be something
out there and if there isn't actually
created and that's been like you know
that's that's the way I've continued to
be an entrepreneur to this day that's
where your business ideas come from
yeah scratch that on edge yeah so it's
really interesting so at Qwest i because
we were manufacturing in the inner
cities i worked with a lot of former
drug dealers and it is utterly
fascinating what an amazing education
that is in entrepreneurship like just
let go of any moral judgment for a sec
like the product is essentially risk
that's what you're really selling like
you're willing to tolerate the risk and
so you get a hold of this thing that's
illegal that makes you have heart
attacks when police are nearby and
that's essentially what you broker for
people is all take this risk to get you
this thing but because it's so high-risk
and because when you're really serious
about it there are people that actually
will try to come and kill you and take
your stash and whatever you're
encroaching on their turf I mean it
obviously can be incredibly incredibly
violent but they also know like the cops
and how they change shifts and who has
what car and so that they can really
like keep an eye on everything and I was
talking to one of them I wasn't that I
wasn't that yeah right here at earlier
stage but talking to some of these guys
that had like legitimate businesses that
were passed down right so they weren't
just like your random street hustlers
these were people that like their
parents were in the drug trade and so it
was a family business and you know for
whatever reason you end up having to
take it over and I remember one day just
like I really want to understand this
because it like this guy was really
really sharp no matter what you put him
on like he would just get it he'd be
able to do it he was good with people
like he understood like what are the
business objectives and how is what I'm
doing like apply to that and how do I
have to get people to work for me to
make it work it's really pretty
interesting like did you feel
entrepreneurial while you were doing it
oh yeah for sure
you know you know you the risk every
single day you know you start to make
money that you never seen you know I've
never had money like that so for me it
was like the taste of like wow okay I'm
I'm able to and what did it feel like is
that like freedom for you
or or yes definitely some freedom
freedom to start being able to kind of
do what I want like kind of control what
I wanted and do certain things and what
what is the like value of risk for an
entrepreneur like the ability to take
risk if everything is part of my DNA you
know it's just like I'm constantly every
day trying to challenge myself you know
to push myself to take risk whether it's
in my personal life you know pushing
myself to new environments chopped
trying new things and why you do that
people it helps me grow you know I grow
as an individual every time I try to do
something that scares me I just like it
afterwards like I just empowers me I
feel you know I feel like I've learned
something I've grown I've learned about
a new culture learn about a new person I
always feel like I can learn something
new from someone no matter who they are
you know so and then with ideas like I
you know I just love I'm not afraid to
fail you know for me there's nothing
more powerful than creating something
and if it's going wrong like solving
okay hop let's pivot let's to figure out
why it's not working and continuing
until you know we actually built
something that people you know see value
in and has grown and when something does
work the reward of like seeing people
come together for one thing and everyone
kind of believing in that mission and
believing in that idea believing in it
is just like there's nothing more
rewarding to me that's like that's its
best moments of my life have been like
when I've taken a big risk and I've seen
it come to fruition and like it's gone
from this idea to people to like action
people like you know all the making it
reality something tangible seeing the
emotion that it creates and different
people and like this it's just awesome
you know and then I forget I think Pitts
we do like the elite daily like the
moment where me and my co-founders let
me have that exit we didn't plan and we
looked each other in the eye are like
wow
I can did it I forget about the money
like there's 200 people back in the
office that are all happy if we can work
in a common goal 80 million people out
of reading this thing in daily basis
like remember the day there was just
three folding chairs and we didn't know
if this thing was going to really work
and now you know it was but to me that's
like it was the greatest thing in the
world
alright so remind me back your 1819 you
get out of the drug trade very wisely
and you drop out of college that seems
like at that point probably the biggest
risk that you took from certainly from
the perspective of everyone now thinks
I'm exactly what they told me I was
going to be right
I am the failure I am the dropout and I
didn't get into Princeton the way that
my dad wanted which I'm assuming he'd
been beating into you for a very long
time
so what was it that gave you the courage
to quit how did you convince yourself
that you were actually the right person
to bet on that you would be better at
educating yourself than the education
system you know through me it was like
what I was passionate about was like
learning how to invest what made company
successful understanding how to read an
income statement
understanding how to read that balance
they mean understanding what made you
just started looking that up how do you
read about oh yeah so just going on all
over the Internet I would really like
Silicon investor Raging Bull you know
yeah finance yahoo.com like these are
the sites that I would be go to and just
start to you know read and connect with
different people on those message boards
and if I had asked you at that point
what do you do like you dropped out of
school Gerard what do you do like you're
on the computer all day what are you
doing oh you know I'm learning I'm
starting to learn how to trade I'm
starting to you know research companies
understand you know their fundamentals
you know did you get good at it alright
great at it so how did you get the
technology built like I'm putting myself
back in the time where the Internet is
isn't exactly new but it's certainly not
robust in the way that we think about it
today you're 1819 at this point the
first hurdle for virtually everybody is
a I know nothing about stocks I don't
know how to read a balance sheet so when
you dive into stock
and you realize the first thing you have
to learn is about balance sheets you
stop because like Jesus this is such a
world unto itself but then even if I get
over that then when I realized that wait
forum is a technology somebody has to
build me the technology I don't know
anybody that builds you saying like how
did you keep hitting these roadblock
after roadblock after roadblock and go
there's a solution here and I'm gonna
find it yeah how'd you do that no I mean
just young hustler I mean I got you a
born entrepreneur you identify as a born
entrepreneur I didn't call myself that
but yeah I would say that since I was a
kid from my custom lollipops as a kid to
10 t-shirts Marc Ecko t-shirts to like
it's just how are you selling Marc Ecko
desert uh one of my friends father's
worked for Marc Ecko you know he had all
the shirts like and I would basically
get him from him like from the father
wholesale and wear him to school and
then some that's amazing okay so like
the very advanced lemonade stand yeah
yeah yes and and I was taught to work
you know like I worked at the
supermarket the A&P growing up with my
mom worked there tell me about your mom
and dad's work ethic oh my gosh my mom
worked seven days a week you know almost
every week at a local supermarket and is
she telling you like this is what you
have to do like you do whatever it takes
to make ends meet or what she like [__]
the man this sucks
I can't believe I have to do this no I
mom loved it you know she was a
bookkeeper and she just like you know
she took pride in it she dressed every
day like it was inspiring for me as a
kid this year do that every single day
and my father worked for Prudential you
know I just saw him every single day and
he I would watch him as a kid doing the
budget in the living room and watch him
as like you know you know working and
provided for family and he used to leave
notes for me throughout the house little
quotes from different leaders as a kid
be like ah another you know I didn't
really get it right um by looking back
like he was definitely subconsciously
building it to a leader for sure
and what does that mean like what are
the qualities of a great leader for you
courage
someone who has is as has it has the
courage no matter what
to believe in something hold Harley and
follow that with faith and courage to
just go and no matter what be able to
also I think for me leading is picking
up the people around me and putting them
before myself caring about everybody
around me and putting them in a position
to thrive and this is see before myself
and basically leading by example of how
you live your life leadership to me as a
character you know who you are not what
you do and when did that come about and
you did you always have that or was some
of that from gaining things so quickly
only to lose them and realize way this
was largely a problem of ego the ego
with one of the biggest lessons for me
in my life because you know the as a
young guy when I started to finally it's
sad to work and I started to make some
money like you can really easily and I
see it even today day and age ik you can
get caught up in like caring about like
making the money and you know for me I
lost touch with you know who I was and
like the fact that yeah I aspired to
have all these nice things it was great
but what is it all for and I didn't
think about legacy you know I'm just
young guy like I want to get back to my
past I want to pay up their mortgage I
want to you know I want to be able to
buy my sister one of my greatest moments
in life were was the mind my sister
thought I wasn't going to show up to her
17th birthday because I was out hustling
and I surprised her and my parents
couldn't afford her first car and I
surprised her in the driveway with the
card should we dream though with the
poster board that says happy birthday
sister I love you and putting a bow on
it and seeing her break down crying
hysterical I'm like picking her up and
spinning her and then her saying like I
didn't even know you love me this much
let's just use her and like for me
though you know that was like what I
strived for
we're moments like that and also like
being able to get all these things and
being able to go into the store and I'm
a sneakerhead like you and I
remember going into swimming like I want
every dunk like Nike dunks like I'll
give me every color and you know I was
having fun and living but I wasn't
thinking about impact I wasn't thinking
about legacy I was thing about like how
can I make more money more money more
money so that's got to make it even
harder than when it all starts falling
apart how did you handle that
obviously mom sort of ultimately gives
you the clinching piece of information
but how do you how do you get back on
your feet
um I love pressure I love adversity I
actually like through I'm actually I'd
perform better with pressure here city
it's for sure I wasn't the kid who I was
able to like study for like the test
when it came time to take that test like
I'm like I get really focused and
prepared for this attending with
speaking engagements now you know like
I'm really bad at preparing from a TEDx
like people prepare for like months of
my TEDx I didn't prepare
I waited it was like the day of like a
TEDx and I was allow you know all right
it's game time I get focused and what is
it what is it that we want to accomplish
here what is the message I was great cuz
my mother doesn't first time my mother
showed up I dedicated it to my mom but I
always thrived over adversity and when I
what are you saying to yourself at this
point like how do you leverage the
pressure is it just literally
subconscious and you show up or are you
saying like hey there's pressure there's
people that want to see me fail there's
no way I'm going to let this happen yeah
um it's definitely subconscious um just
about my entire life I've had moments
like that where I've almost even died
you know exclu be diving almost drowning
and like my air breaking and me being
like [__] I'm underwater right now I
don't have air I'm a dive what's going
to happen and then like lo and behold
like somehow like the person next to me
like season I'm choking and like boom
gives me their air and I'm like okay I
get to the top well they're like when
I'm snowboarding backcountry and you
know my friends all lose me and it gets
dark and I'm in the middle of the
mountain in like
helmet and I'm like [__] I gotta get to
the bottom of this mountain and there's
rocks and trees and I'm like okay
put yourself together this is that
versity at its finest like you've got to
get down this [__] mountain you know
like throughout my life I've had moments
like this happen and it's just like over
time I see that fear and I'm like I'm
running right through it you know
there's nothing that's going to help me
there's times I'm flying in the plane
I'm like this plane may go down but you
know I'm okay with that I'm okay with
dying like that's because now it's like
I'm doing I know I'm doing everything I
possibly can every single day to inspire
impact the people around me and if I die
I know that I've done my part as much as
I possibly can and was that part of the
driving desire to get back up on your
feet and yeah I'm paying yeah that's
that's the driving force of like
everyday like pushing myself and that's
when I was like I want to step up as
more as a more as a role model for this
generation and be a better leader I
started working on social media and
seeing a lot of people portraying
success in creating this perception of
success and there I felt that there was
something missing out there for
Millennials as you know they're growing
are people ever being vulnerable and
talking about the the grit talking about
the adversity talk about the failing you
know and also also talking about like
the the real path through success and
what it takes
he doesn't mean you know and I just I
wanted to be able to start to speak up
and share that and share that story in
and get out there and do more of what I
love but I realized is that I love
mentoring you know we lead daily my CEO
was 19 years old he was my intern well
for me like I want to see the people
around me succeed more than I've
succeeded so walk me through the moment
you go see Tony Robbins you start
thinking about what that next move is
going to be you're legitimately
contemplating what I said that you could
have retired to Miami that wasn't a
throwaway line like you were actually
well my accountant told me to just not
retire but go to Miami for this save on
the state income tax and like you're
getting getting ready to get these big
wires go to Miami
and disclose I had this like freakin
beautiful place in the sky ocean views
and like getting ready to sign and I
just had a moment like I'm the balcony
looking at that ocean it was just like
no this isn't where I'm supposed to be
right now I'm I don't deserve this yet
right now oh I have more work to do in
life
and going back to Newark where my family
was from and seeing kind of what was
happening there and then like being
asked to speak at in Silicon Valley and
seeing these ecosystems being built to
support entrepreneurs and give resources
but you didn't see that where you know I
grew up so I wanted to I was like that's
what I need to be doing I need to be
back there I need to be building that
and those it you know so much of of the
youth there I can see like they're
getting succumb to the environment that
I got succumb to growing up and they're
talking to me about hustling now they're
talking about like oh that's the only
way you know otherwise I'm supposed to I
teacher is telling me I suppose we go
get a job at McDonald's you know and I'm
like nah let me tell you how let me tell
you if I was able to do it you can too
you know and but you need to start
making that choice you need to make a
choice right now for yourself do going
to founders was amazing the energy there
was unlike anything I've ever seen I was
so glad that we had a camera with me
yeah because so they give you guys a
little bit of a setup was in New York
for something else you hit me up on
social we admit it South by Southwest
you hit me up on a social said dude if
you're like in Manhattan you got to come
to Newark you've got to see what we're
doing and you had told me about it I
literally couldn't believe that it was
real but I was so caught by that notion
of you in the penthouse in Miami I know
that view you're looking out at the
water you're about to sign and you don't
like I am still freaked out by that you
don't sign you go back you don't just go
back to New Jersey you go back to like a
gnarly part of New Jersey and literally
I'm thinking I've really got to see this
for myself somebody that is so connected
to these
kids and so wants to like give back
because I'm thinking I know what the
kind of money you've made can do like it
that doesn't change your life a little
that changes your life a lot and in this
really beautiful way it moves you
backwards in a beautiful way but it
moves you backwards you went from I'm
sure a much nicer neighborhood to
spending all of your time in a really
downtrodden area but you spike so smart
get a real estate partner to help you
come in you buy the stuff it's
live-work-play
you're bringing your revitalizing the
neighborhood's the art gallery that you
and I shot in you've got the food there
to really draw people in and then when I
came in I was supposed to be doing a
talk for Rutgers would ironically had no
idea what's down the street by the way
yeah so I set up a computer so we can do
a Skype and I'm like hey if you've got
kids they're like let them listen and
the [__] kids were on fire man like
their energy was through the roof they
all have like these really good business
ideas like the kids that gave me a bag
full of like cricket and it's like
branded it's like Jiminy's or something
I want to give them a shout-out jiminy
yeah like I was like what is going on in
this like hilariously random corner of
Newark NJ so what is the Magic Man like
you've captured something you've done
something to these kids so it's about
community first and foremost both
building the community within centers
for people to be a part of it but also
the universe social enterprise so
getting back in revitalizing these parts
of the city and you know where we are as
a progressive education company you know
teaching through the principles of
entrepreneurship and just are it's
similar to like a general assembly
you know we it's basically our different
curriculums and they should be these are
curriculums that are based upon that all
the things that I've learned over the
past 14 years that I wish I learned if I
were to go back to school back when I
was 18 19 20 21 22 this is the you know
this is what I would have wanted to
learn you know in a high intense you
camp style 12 weeks through personal
grow personal development emotional
intelligence financial
see then into like business model canvas
understanding how to really launch an
idea test experiment market story tell
how do you be able to tell your story
how do you be able to get customers how
do you able to do all of that and
basically bringing in mentors so you
know I've foster relationships you know
like I'm so grateful for our
relationship but the impact that you
made like they never would have been
able to ever meet you and have you in a
room and the fact that now we're able to
bring in these type of experts into that
space to be able to share their stories
share their lessons the impact that you
made that day was so like deep and
long-lasting you changed some lives that
day and that happens every single day
every day we're teaching it we're
meditating in the morning or working
with anti chief physical work with them
on their mental their physical and then
you know and then we're bringing in
these mentors and experts to share and
really get them to level up and
understand what it really means to be an
entrepreneur
a lot of people throw this title
nowadays of being an entrepreneur but
it's like you know building a real
business is you know is is not this
glorified thing
[__] very difficult and you really
need to understand how to how to be able
to overcome all those challenges test
experiment fail fail fail fail fail fail
you know until you cook until you get it
right and and that's basically what we
and that's what we're that's like our
secret sauce to knows is giving that
education in teaching that over these 12
weeks with some of the best we D leaders
in the world how do you teach them to so
I've heard it defined then I forget by
who but success is the ability to go
from failure to failure to failure
without a loss of enthusiasm how do you
teach them how to do that which is so
important
teach them how to figure out their with
their you know their why man it's really
come down to that but you know that's
the truth is figuring out what really
why are they doing in what really truly
drives them to
solve this problem then do you try to
help them look past the money yeah it's
um it's definitely it's definitely tough
for them and the entrepreneurs have but
definitely have their lows and a lot of
some of them don't make it you know some
of them break and they like classes it
for me and that's a great question can
anybody become an entrepreneur can
anyone become a great entrepreneur yes
but do it do they have what it takes
are they willing to do whatever it takes
a lot of people give up that's just you
know that's just the truth can you tell
who's going to make it and who won't um
usually yeah usually I mean the first
four weeks I'm breaking them I'm not
there to be their friend I'm there to be
their mentor and I'm breaking them down
to figure out do you really really want
this and how do you do that because this
like understand this is such an
important question for me so we have an
internship program here and for anybody
interested lean in a little closer and I
want you to hear this is my criteria I
just want to know if you can work I have
no [__] idea how to tell ahead of
time like you can look at somebody maybe
they're really bright maybe they've got
something special but will they do
whatever it takes
are they going to grind I have no idea
like literally Gerard I've interviewed a
lot of people yeah talking maybe 100
probably more eventful in every like
stratosphere you can imagine so I've
interviewed people that are fresh out of
prison and they want to be a janitor and
I've interviewed people up to the EVP of
sales and you know these are people that
have works from fortune 500 companies
and and everyone in between I can't tell
you how to determine if somebody has
derived people can tell you grit right
as another way to say it people will
tell you that they have ambition they're
all going to tell you that right they're
all going to tell you that they really
want it they're all going to tell you
that they're compassionate and that
they're caring and they want to see
other people succeed but whether or not
like how they react when it sucks yeah
is a whole nother beast right oh yeah
like who
can deal with self-imposed suffering
that's really the question and to your
point like what your why have you read
man's search for meaning by Viktor
Frankl has not have enough that's a hard
hey you mutter that book and B seriously
I will I will in fact right now I'm
telling you I'm going to ship you like a
hundred of those [__] books any kid
that walks through your doors okay be
that Viktor Frankl survived he actually
survived five I believe concentration
camps five including Auschwitz and he
said literally you would know 72 hours
before someone was going to die because
they would give up and he said once they
gave up you can't survive that kind of
hardship if you don't have something in
you that is so important to you yes that
it's pushing you and driving you forward
he said the moment they lost their why
they were done yeah hunch and there's
that awesome Nietzsche quote if you have
a why you can survive almost any how yes
so when you hear this and he's a
neurologist so this guy is just like
bright in the extreme very educated and
very articulate about psychology and the
brain and what's happening
neurologically to these people but what
I found so unendingly interesting is you
can never predict who the people were
that we're going to break once they
broke it was so evident and so
immediately obvious they're like okay
they're they're done now like they they
no longer know why they're suffering
right and when you were like I'm
suffering because I'm going to go find
my kids or I'm going to go find my
spouse and I'm going to build something
back up or even if this is the [__]
interesting part even if your why was
I'm going to [__] kill every one of
these guards the second this war is over
my friend I will know nothing but
bloodshed great like at least that like
gave you something to keep and surely
right and I've got a whole thing about
beauty and rage both conserve you and
let me assure you in a concentration
camp I'm going to lean a little more on
the rage than anything else but having
your wide like understanding that so I
need to understand what you do to like
put these kids to the test to figure out
who really wants it because I want this
to work more than you can imagine and I
know you're not you don't play being an
entrepreneur I know you're actually
trying to solve a problem yeah so
so what is it tell me cuz I want to put
it to use in my own life I don't I just
really try to see if they'll break by me
questioning the fact that like well I
don't know if this is this is going to
really work and I think you should maybe
go in a different direction and seeing
like is it they'd a really really at the
end of the day no matter what say to me
Gerard one way or another however
however that's going to have to happen
like I am pushing this thing forward and
going to make this a reality and like
once I feel that and see them actually
put that into action that's when I know
they have whatever it I'll do whatever
it takes and I have it but for me it's
just constantly trying to question them
and see if you know if they'll break I
love that I love that so much I thought
what are like some key team-building
things that people should have um well
first and foremost it's understanding
you know it's really the self-awareness
so it's like for first and foremost with
the founder it's like what are you you
really great at because there's an
entrepreneur you typically want to do it
all and a lot of times in the very
beginning you are wearing every at and
trying to do it all and you have to be
resourceful you have to be willing to
get your hands dirty and do a little bit
of everything in the beginning but then
it's like okay really buckle down and I
even had to go through this with myself
you know there's times I was like trying
to do too much I do trying to do it all
and like figure out like what am I
really really passionate about what am I
really great at what is that one thing
that I can do the very best on my team
to add the most value you know for the
you know for this idea that business and
then so figuring out okay who do you
really need you know do you need that
chief operating officer that person is
going to really help you with the
operations and logistics and the
infrastructure you need that you know
Marc is someone that's going to handle
your marketing that's just badass and
all I care about is like how they're
gonna be able to tell this story to the
marketplace and be able to retain people
that become customers and you know who
are the people that you need you know
around you and what are you really truly
great at is like the first the first
thing that we really we teach and then
it's um helping them understand
what it like what it is they're building
in a very concise way to get people to
understand you know what it is that
they're actually building why they're
building it and then basically getting
out there talking to people it's like
you know it's at the end of day we teach
them you get out go and talk people
share this idea as many people you know
as much as you can go out and network
online you know build relationships with
people online and look for these people
put it out there like actually leverage
social media to talk about document we
teach you know we're telling our
entrepreneurs document the process you
know let's lose that whole notion of
social currency that you talk about yeah
it's part of social currency you know
like if you are of ideas of currencies
yeah something you're going to doves so
basically we just you know we time
delete daily right but I wouldn't do it
again building a publication now we are
the publication we are the media
platform so you know at this point in
time like you need to be telling your
story you need to be taking your
personal branding like serious you know
and I that's what we basically teach is
like how are you branding yourself how
are you telling your story
how are you sharing that story through
your personal brand and also your your
business and how's your business
branding itself online how are people
perceiving you when they come across you
and because I got truly believe that if
you if you do that in the right way the
law of attraction you're going to start
manifesting opportunities your circle of
influence the people that you surround
yourself with it's going to happen it's
happened with me I never cared about my
personal brand my entire career it's
extremely important today that you
understand how to share your story how
to document the process how to put that
out how are people discovering you in
today's day and age consistently being
in day out I don't want to bring it I
want to wrap up the the quality thing so
I derail this a bit on how to build a
team but you said basically they have to
be right or die
they've really got another why what you
look for in entrepreneurs and then
they've got to be good team builders and
then what are a couple other things you
really look for in your all-star
entrepreneurs if there s the ability to
get get customers like test and be able
to
like it's just an idea until people
actually willing to pay for it they love
it they're able to you're they're using
your product consistently you know every
day so I want to see that the
entrepreneur is willing to get out talk
to their customers talk to the people
that it be that this would be value to
and see that they're able to get those
people you know those customers are
those that audience to be using their
products staying and you know
consistently you know something else
that I'd like to see is just like their
confidence overall the fact that they're
willing to be be out there get out be
able to share their share their story
and get people to believe in them
you know believe in their idea and you
know and then other than that like just
their grit you know being able to see
that they're able to really really put
in the put in the work to see it through
and do you think confidence is something
you can teach yeah for sure absolutely
I mean a lot of our entrenador Bennett
they lack they scared what people will
think of them scared of people maybe
steal their idea they're going to get
they're going to fail they've kind of
like a big a big thing in beginning of
our accelerator that we try to teach and
how do you help people get over the we
do something called failing forward so
every Friday we have them stand up in
front of the room in front of all the
other entrepreneurs and talk about an
obstacle that they're facing personally
and professionally and be open about
that and teaching them to be a little
more vulnerable and like speak up about
that and then the group all of us
the mentors leaders and the
entrepreneurs will help push them
through that and it's been
transformational that that particular
exercise where I've seen them you know
come like week three of them like
speaking in front of everybody building
relationships like getting out there
feeling that they have support all of a
sudden you just start to see I've seen
them break down ground like and is the
first time I feel like you know people
believe in me like I actually have
support like I can do this you know and
a lot of times that's what it is you
need to surround yourself with the right
energy the right people like that as
passionate of you like-minded people
that positivity and that energy is
infectious and that's like the
environment that we
mutant founders that's pretty incredible
so the last thing that I want to talk
about is specifically you're known as
the millennial mentor what what is the
unique struggle that you think
Millennials are going through that they
need help with I think the one of the
things that I see that I've just
recently been really talking about is
that the perception like we live in this
day and age or like social media is so
strong like you know it could do so many
great things in connect but like really
digging into like what why you know why
are you here like what are you like what
do you want to give to the world you
know and are you really discovering that
within yourself because there's so much
consumption happening on a daily basis
because a social me and everything you
can get so caught up I'm like living a
script of what you think you should be
doing rather than digging down inside
yourself and shutting off all the noise
on my figuring out look what is it that
you you know what is it that you really
want to do and what is it that you want
to give to the world and I think that
Mellon is right now a lot of them you
know haven't figured out who they really
are
and like because of the and and then and
then their fear they feared they fear
how people are going to judge them and
what they look like and all that stuff
instead of like really figuring out who
they really are not trying to be
something that they're not and and then
starting living a true authentic life
and putting that out you know um what in
that process of self-discovery look like
how do you find out who you are I think
it's um for me it was a lot changing my
environment it was it was breaking the
pattern of what what I was doing on a
day to day basis look changing my habits
changing my patterns starting to go and
travel see new cultures shut off the you
know the phone the noise and all that
stuff I started meditating I started
really thinking things through I started
reading more
started and and MySpace I started
praying more and that that a long time I
started writing I'm a writer so I love
to write I think that's one of the best
things that you can do to believe in
eyes just you know get your thoughts on
paper make them real
I just write you're going to know what
you're gonna write just write your
thoughts it's been that time to yourself
you know stop looking for so many
opinions and I think it takes you know
you have to if that's a point really if
they really do that clear meet up today
that's what I do know for sure yeah all
right so before I ask my final question
where can these guys find your amazing
content oh well I I mean I shout out to
the G squad that's odd here we that's
like the common denominator for me
throughout my entire career is been
content I just love obviously sharing on
a daily basis my number one platform
right now is Instagram and YouTube I
have that show leaders create leaders on
YouTube tom is in season three about to
be lit our episode was unbelievable
that's just day when you came to Nord to
shared with the founders community so
many everybody was like that was the
best speech that we've heard yet at
founders and and in our episode we went
deep
I caught I call you in a couple
questions you've never been asked before
which is cool brought back some memories
so the show leaders take meteors I would
love to see you guys on YouTube it's
under Gerard Adams TV season three will
be launching in July and then founders
we're going to be opening up our online
community come July as well so that's
exciting - can you give details on that
like that could be amazing yeah I'm
really looking forward to it you're
going to make your courses available and
stuff yeah so a lot of lives so people
can live stream be able to get a lot of
the live you know live instructors and
I'll be doing a lot of more live
mentorship a vault I have so much
content from me 14 years of like my
mentors and I have my team just been
been editing it for over a year now
oh yeah
so it's like literally going to be like
Netflix for entrepreneurs like rose like
just like Netflix and just all these
different categories of what we
typically beat all our members we would
invite them to our workshops and now
we're going to start doing different
experiences when we go on tour or be
like three-day weekends and really try
to create some really cool travel
experiences as well so learn our members
to be a part of all that nice did you
give your Instagram handle Oh at Gerard
Adams there you go follow them in
everywhere everywhere all right final
question what is the impact you want to
have on the world basically does it
matter where you come from
you know you know what your background
is that at the end of the day it's that
it's truly possible you're able to truly
find who you are yourself your authentic
self your Y your purpose you know and
truly believe in yourself and you know
at the end of day anything is truly
possible and for me the impact that I
want to leave in the legacy is you know
through changing the face of Education
you know through the principles of
entrepreneurship and you know a little
bit little bit little every day we're
hoping that we can just be able to give
hope give this the right skills
strategies mindset for the people that
felt that they've never had the
resources never believed that in
themselves and hopefully be able to have
them bring to the world what they've
always dreamt of I love that Gerard
thank you so much you know so Beth I was
a baby
guys all right I have seen the magic
firsthand you are going to want to look
into founders and oh dear God if you're
anywhere near Newark New Jersey you have
to see this for yourself to believe it
if I hadn't been there I don't know that
I would have really understood how much
this is the future of the way
entrepreneurs are going to learn it is
ultra hands-on he attracts some of the
most amazing people that have been
through there like in this little room
but there's so much energy and juice and
he is so giving like understand for a
second this is crazy
people work they fight they build
businesses
do all of that for the exit that's
literally what most entrepreneurs think
about all they care about is the exit
once you get the exit it's the exit
that's when you leave you retire you go
somewhere nice where there's no
mosquitos to quote my boy jay-z like
that is what people are trying to do and
so to be there on the precipice in Miami
Beach where he would have saved millions
of dollars just by moving to Miami Beach
signing on that condo in the sky and
never worrying about all the people that
come after him and just go do it again
when he's ready to take his time that
could have been his life but it wasn't
he looked inward and he found a totally
different answer something that
compelled him that why that thing that
drove him to really do something and if
you want to know when I look at him do I
see somebody who would be whatever the
[__] it takes yes I do and he didn't go
into some of the amazing ideas and I
don't know if he just doesn't want to go
into them so I won't rat him out but he
has some really cool ideas and I'll just
say this he built an art gallery in the
middle of the ghetto I just got the
chills with some really amazing art done
by local artists it is phenomenal these
are people that never would have had a
chance if it wasn't for this man it is
one of the most incredible ideas it's
what I call mining for astronauts right
now the next great mine the next great
thinker the next person to do something
great truly to become an astronaut is in
the inner city somewhere and they don't
believe in themselves because nobody has
ever believed in them but to be able to
give entrepreneurs a platform a way to
give back to connect to find their why
and to do something amazing while
building business opportunities along
the way I think is one of the most
important and greatest entrepreneurial
endeavors anyone is undertaking right
now and I believe you're the man to do
it
so guys check him out gerard adams you
won't be sorry I promise if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Applause]
you